# Homework 3

**Homework Due:** Monday, October 7 at 10 am.

The goal for Homework 3 is improving your Homework 1 and 2.
You will work with 1 or 2 of your classmates, and
you will view their solutions and allow them to view yours.

Note that this sort of sharing is allowed only for lab parts.
(Discussing lab exercises with classmates is always encouraged.)

# Lab Steps to Complete

We are going to do pair/triple programming. You will work in group to help each other to improve your past submissions.

## Check Your HW1 and HW2 Feedback

```sh
cd ~/csci2041/hw1
git pull
cd ~/csci2041/hw2
git pull
```

## Prepare Your HW3 Directory

```sh
cd ~/csci2041
git clone git@github.umn.edu:umn-csci-2041-f19/hw3.git
cd hw3
./setup
```

1. **Run ./setup every time you clone it.**
   Please follow the instructions to fix any error or warning.
2. **Do NOT edit files on GitHub directly.**
   I need to call the IT if you accidentally reveal your homework.

## Form Groups

Find 1 or 2 people to work with as a group.  Feel free to move around in lab to
sit next to the people you want to work with, but everyone should have their
own computer. Introduce yourselves.

## Prepare the File

The following script will pull the code from your Homework 1 and 2 repositories
and generate a new file `hw3.ml`.

```sh
cd ~/csci2041/hw3
./lab-prepare
```

At the top of the file `hw3.ml`, fill in the names and Internet IDs of everyone in your group.

## Discussion

We are going to discuss the following functions:
1. `compose_option` from Homework 1
2. `add_index` from Homework 2
3. `generate` from Homework 2 (if time permitting)
4. `drop_last` from Homework 2 (if time permitting)

For each of these functions, do the following:
1. First round: each person shows and explains their own solution to others if they have attempted to solve it.
2. Second round: each person takes turns fixing their code with help from others. The entire group should look at the same code at any time, and should move on only when a TA says so or when all the following steps are taken:
   - Fix all compiler errors.
   - Fix all compiler warnings.
   - Remove all `;;`.
   - Indent the code clearly and consistently so that it is easy to read.

Be respectful. :-) We are helping each other to learn.

## Early Checking Off

If you think your group has reviewed all four functions before the lab ends, please tell a TA.

**This concludes the lab part of Homework 3.**

# Take-Home Portion

Continue working on `hw3.ml` to improve the following functions (including `join_option` that was not in the lab).

1. `compose_option` from Homework 1
2. `add_index` from Homework 2
3. `generate` from Homework 2
4. `drop_last` from Homework 2
5. `join_option` from Homework 1

### Grading
The grading is based upon the quality of your revised code. Here are some important criteria:

* Your revised code should not use anything from the standard library, such as `ref`, `@` or `float_of_int`.
* Your revised code should generate no errors or warnings.
* Your revised code should not contain `;;` and should be indented consistently.
* Your revised code should not print any debugging message.
* Your revised code should pass all basic test cases.
* Each function should have a summary comment explaining your changes and how they improve your code's readability, structure, and/or style.
* You must cite any code or ideas you received from a group member.

You may earn 1B bonus points from this homework to boost your Goal 1 homework grade up to letter B, depending on the quality of your report. For example, if your current Goal 1 homework grade is B-, it is possible to boost it to B by submitting a carefully written report. If you start with a lower grade, it is possible to have a larger boost.

The following OCaml function determines the 1B bonus points one can have:
```ocaml
fun hw1_1b -> fun hw1_1a -> fun hw2_1b -> fun hw2_1a ->
  let effective_1b = min 105 (hw1_1b + hw2_1b) in
  let effective_1a = min 50 (hw1_1a + hw2_1a) in
  max 0 ((109 - effective_1b - effective_1a) / 2)
```

## Anonymous Feedback

We are collecting [anonymous feedback](https://z.umn.edu/csci2041feedback) throughout the semester.

## Due

**Homework Due:** Monday, October 7 at 10 am.
