# Notes

Please preserve the structure of this document so that TAs can easily find your solutions. We cannot grade what we cannot find.

# Exercise 1 [0pt]
What have you learned from the discussion about null pointers, if any?

I have learned that in OCaml a "null pointer" is written as None.

# Exercise 3
## Exercise 3.1 [1B 10pts]
```ocaml
let x = true
let y = (x, 1)
```
List all the visible bindings at the end of the program.
val x : bool = true
val y : bool * int = (true, 1)


## Exercise 3.2 [1B 10pts]
```ocaml
let x = 5
let y = x
let z = (x + 2, y)
```
List all the visible bindings at the end of the program.
val x : int = 5
val y : int = 5
val z : int * int = (7, 5)

## \*Exercise 3.3 [1A 5pts + bonus 1B 1pt]
```ocaml
let x = 3
let y = true
let x = x
```
List all the visible bindings at the end of the program.
val x : int = 3
val y : bool = true


## \*Exercise 3.4 [1A 5pts + bonus 1B 1pt]
```ocaml
type a = int
let x = 2
```
List all the visible bindings at the end of the program. Moreover, does `x` have type `a` at the end?
val x : a = 2
Yes, x is type a because the concept of int was assigned to the name 'a' and becuase x has the value that would be an int it must be of type 'a'.


## \*Exercise 3.5 [1A 10pts + bonus 1B 3pts]
```ocaml
type a = int
type b = unit
let x = ()
let y = 100
let x = (y, true)
type a = b * bool
```
List all the visible bindings at the end of the program. Moreover, does `x` have type `a` at the end?
val x : int *bool = (100, true)
val y : int = 100
No, x does not have type a at the end.



# Exercise 4
## Exercise 4.1 [1B 10pts]
What is the value of the following expression?
```ocaml
let x = 1 in let y = 2 in (x, x + y)
```
The value is (1,3)


## \*Exercise 4.2 [1A 5pts + bonus 1B 1pt]
What is the value of the following expression?
```ocaml
let x = 1 in let x = 2 in x
```
The value is 2


## \*Exercise 4.3 [1A 5pts + bonus 1B 1pt]
What is the value of the following expression?
```ocaml
let x = 2 - (let x = 2 in x + 2) in x * 2
```

The value is -4

# Notes

Please preserve the structure of this document so that TAs can easily find your solutions. We cannot grade what we cannot find.
