# 3081 lab04 C++ Class Basics

## What You Will Learn

1. Create a constructor for a class.
2. Define public methods and private class members.

### What's in this folder:

- main.cc:
  - This contains the main function, which creates a random cluster of points.
    - It also has a collection of helper functions to print the cluster and to display some characteristics of the cluster of points.

- Makefile:
  - This makefile is provided to allow you to easily build the executable to run this program, assuming you've created a proper point2.h and point2.cc set of files. It also provides for a _clean_ target, to ease removal of the resulting files generated by the build process.

- Makefile.test:
  - This makefile is used to run the unit tests provided for the class Point2. It should run as is on a cselabs machine. If you are on a personal machine, then you will have to set up Google Test to get it working. Google Test: <https://github.com/google/googletest>
  - Alternatively, googletest is already in the docker image.

- README.md:
  - You're reading this now.

- point2_unittest.cc:
  - This file is provided in case you'd like to make use of the Google Test framework and execute the unit tests against your code manually. Pushing your code to your remote repository does this for you, through the automated feedback mechanism. But, in case you'd like to get started running your own unit tests on your code, an optional section of this lab helps you do just that. These files are part of that optional section.

- point2.h:
  - The header file for this new class. It should include the declaration of the constructor and the three class methods DistanceBetween, Quadrant, and Print.

- point2.cc:
  - The source file for the class definition.

### Building the Class Point2

<hr>
  **The primary goal of this project is to build a simple C++ class to fulfill the interface as exhibited in the provided main.cc file.**
<hr>

Review _main.cc_ now to see how the class will be used. Notice the class methods DistanceBetween, Quadrant, and Print. A point should have an x and y component, both of which are private to the class, but there is no indication in the unittests or in _main.cc_ of how those are specified or used, thus implementation is up to you.

Notice that the method _DistanceBetween()_ is a class method. It calculates the distance between two points, but only 1 Point2 object is passed in. This means the self-referencing _this_ object is the other Point2 object.

The nominal distance between two points can be calculated using Pythagorean's Theorem. Keep in mind that although the x and y components of a Point2 object are private, they are private only to objects of different types. It means any Point2 object can directly access private components of any other Point2 object!

Quadrants for points are numbered 1 to 4 (as well as 0, for the edge case of a point on the origin [0, 0]), counter-clockwise starting from the upper right quadrant (e.g. point [1,1] is in quadrant 1). This is pretty straight-forward until you consider points on the axes -- which quadrants are those in? These requirements have been defined through the unit tests. Look at TEST_F(Point2Test, QuadrantBorder) in `point2_unittest.cc` and in the Set-Up at the top that defines the points used in that test.